All right, let's move on to actions.
Actions are element level
lifecycle functions.
And they're really useful for things like
interfacing with third party libraries.
Like if you have something that you
wanna use that is not a stock component,
but it allows you to work with the DOM,
then an action is a great
way of integrating those.
It's useful for things like lazy
loaded images, or tooltips, or
adding custom event handlers.
And in this app here,
you can scribble on the canvas.
If we pick a color like orange,
close that and
then draw on the canvas, we can scribble.
But if you open this menu and then cycle
through the options with the tab key,
you'll quickly discover that it's
highlighted the wrong thing.
I wanted to highlight the button, but
instead it highlighted the URL bar.
And that's because at the moment,
this modal menu isn't trapping focus.
And trapping keyboard focus is an
important thing to do when we're trying to
build user interfaces that are accessible
for keyboard users as well as mouse users.
And that's the sort of thing
that we can fix with an action.
So over in our actions.js file, we have a
trapFocus function, and like a transition,
it receives a node as its first
argument and lets you apply some logic.
So inside app.svelte,
we're gonna go ahead and import that.
And we'll add it to the menu
with use:trapfocus.
All right, let's take a look at
what's happening in this function.
So we begin by storing a reference to
whatever element was previously focused.
We have a little helper function here that
gets all of the focusable elements inside
the node.
And then we have a key down handler,
which whenever we press the tab
button will cycle through
those focusable elements.
And focus the next one or
the previous one,
then when we get to the end it
will cycle back to the beginning.
And the first thing that we do
is we focus the first focusable
element inside the menu.
So when we open this, and
if I press the tab key,
you will see that the orange button is
the next focusable element because it was
previously focusing the red button.
Right now though,
it doesn't do anything beyond that,
if we get to the end of the flexible
list and press tab again.
Then the focus leaves this menu and
that's the part that we wanna fix.
So first of all,
we want to add an event listener.
We wanna listen for
the key down event, and
we wanna use that handle
key down function.
And secondly, this is a recurring theme
today, when we do some setup work,
we also wanna do some tear
down work at the end.
So we're gonna return an object with
a destroy method that will get called when
the element is removed from the DOM.
Okay, and finally, we wanna reset
the focus to the element that
was focused before the menu appeared.
Just in case an element wasn't focused for
some reason,
we're gonna use the optional
chaining operator.
And call its focus method.
So, now when we open the menu and
cycle through the options,
it will get to the end and
then it'll go back to the start, right?
This is a more accessible menu.
Pick a nice blue color,
close the menu and go nuts.
And just like transitions and
everything else,
you can add parameters to your actions.
In this exercise,
we want to add a tooltip to the button
using a library called Tippy.js.
So you'll see here that we
already have use:tooltip,
but if you hover over the button.
You'll see that the tooltip
contains no content and
might be a little bit
hard to see in dark mode.
To practice if I just for the sake of this
exercise to switch over to light mode,
you can see that a tooltip is appearing
but there's nothing in there.
And that's because we're
not passing anything in.
Back to dark mode.
Close that window.
So here's our action,
our tooltip function.
We're creating the tooltip using Tippy.
But we need to pass in some options,
do that up here.
And then where we call the action,
We'll pass in some content.
And we'll give it a theme.
There's a bunch of themes that you get
with Tippy, material is one of them.
And now if we hover over the button,
you'll see that it's rendering
a tooltip correctly.
Now there is one thing that is
not working with this right now.
If we change this, To some different text,
it won't be reflected in the tooltip.
And that's because we're not
updating the value inside.
And we can fix that by adding
an update method to our action.
Tippy has a set props method,
which takes some options.
And so now if I change the text
back into Frontend Masters.
For however, it appears in the tooltip.